.TH "construct" "l" "3.1" "Andreas Wilm" "construct"
.SH "NAME"
ConStruct \- a collection of tools for conserved rna secondary structure prediction and an alignment editing
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcs_fold\fR [\-h] [\-d] [\-v] [\-f \fImsafile\fR] [\-t \fItemp\fR] [\-l \fIlength\fR]

\fBcs_dp\fR [\-h] [\-V] [\-v] [\-d] [\-t] [\-f \fIprojectfile>\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
ConStruct is not a single executable, but a whole set of tools.
The main scripts are cs_fold and cs_dp.
.br .br 
cs_fold is a frontend for folding RNA sequences.
It reads an multiple sequence alignment file (MSA) and folds each sequence contained
therein with the chosen method (default RNAfold) and options. cs_fold will create a
so called project file and basepairing matrices for each sequence including. 
.br 
cs_dp reads the project file and displays an alignment editor and a consensus dotplot,
which comprises all single basepairing matrices superimposed according to the alignment.
Thus conserved elements can be readily identified and misaligned regions can be easily corrected.
Once you have a trusted/corrected alignment you can predict consensus structures, which may be
displayed in a variety of formats.

.br 
Other included scripts:
.br 
\fBcs_struct_displ\fR,
\fBcs_shift\fR,
\fBcs_proj_conv\fR


.SH "OPTIONS"
Options for \fBcs_fold\fR
.TP 
.B \-h
print short help and exit
.TP 
.B \-d
enable debugging
.TP 
.B \-v
be verbose
.TP 
.B \-f\ <msafile>
load specified multiple sequence file on startup
.TP 
.B \-t\ <temp>
set default RNAfold temperature
.TP 
.B \-l\ <length>
set Tinoco minimum helix length


.PP 
Options for \fBcs_dp\fR
.TP 
.B \-h
print short help and exit
.TP 
.B \-V
print version and exit
.TP 
.B \-v
be verbose
.TP 
.B \-d
enable debugging
.TP 
.B \-t
do timings
.TP 
.B \-f\ <projectfile>
load specified project\-file on startup

.SH "REFERENCES"
Please cite
.br 
Lueck R., Graef S. and Steger G.
.br 
"ConStruct: a tool for thermodynamic controlled prediction of conserved secondary structure."
.br 
NAR, 27, pp 4208\-17, 1999


.SH "VERSION"
This man page documents version 3.2 of ConStruct.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Rupert Lueck, Jochen Riks, Andreas Wilm, Gerhard Steger
.SH "BUGS"
Comments should be sent to construct@biophys.uni\-duesseldorf.de
